In this section, we'll define a message-passing interface between our HTML page and the backend root module. The root module will accept text, store the working document in memory, capitalize all letters, and update the HTML page as the user types. 

Now that we have included *freedom.js* in our page, a global **freedom** object is exposed in both [`index.html`](https://github.com/UWNetworksLab/freedom/blob/master/demo/texteditor/01/index.html) and [`main.js`](https://github.com/UWNetworksLab/freedom/blob/master/demo/texteditor/01/main.js). In this tutorial we'll use [freedom.on] (/UWNetworksLab/freedom/wiki/FreeDOM-Code-Reference#freedomon) and [freedom.emit] (/UWNetworksLab/freedom/wiki/FreeDOM-Code-Reference#freedomemit).

The source code for this tutorial can be found here:  
[Repository-01](https://github.com/UWNetworksLab/freedom/tree/master/demo/texteditor/01)

### Design Plan

    HIGH-LEVEL DIAGRAM HERE
    index.html <=> manifest.json

One thing to keep in mind during development is that *freedom.js* modules can reside locally or remotely. In fact, a *freedom.js* app can consist of multiple modules, each of which runs in a different physical location. Thus, one should always design their module interfaces with the understanding that messages might have to pass across the Internet before arriving at their destination. This also means that all modules have their own namespace and operate in independent threads of execution.

In this example, we'll pass the entire document after every key press. Yea, it's inefficient, but you should be smarter in your apps.

###Sending the text to the root module from index.html
Let's create a `textarea` tag in [`index.html`](https://github.com/UWNetworksLab/freedom/blob/master/demo/texteditor/01/index.html) and listen for key press events. When any key is pressed in this element, we'll send a message to our backend root module with all the contents using [freedom.emit] (/UWNetworksLab/freedom/wiki/FreeDOM-Code-Reference#freedomemit). `freedom.emit` takes 2 arguments, the message type and the message contents. When called, it will send all messages to the root module.

    <html>
    ...
      <script type='text/javascript'>
      window.onload = function() {
        console.log("Window Loaded");
        var input = document.getElementById('text-input');
        input.onkeydown = function(evt) {
          window.freedom.emit('update-text', input.value);
        };
      };
      </script>
    </head>
    <body>
    ...
    <textarea id='text-input' rows="20" class='span10'></textarea></div>
    ...
    </html>

###Adding a backend module interface to main.js
Now in our [`main.js`](https://github.com/UWNetworksLab/freedom/blob/master/demo/texteditor/01/main.js) script, we can call [freedom.on] (/UWNetworksLab/freedom/wiki/FreeDOM-Code-Reference#freedomon) to listen for messages of a particular *type*.

    var document;
    freedom.on("update-text", function(text) {
      var result = text.toUpperCase();
      document = result;
      freedom.emit("display-text", result);
    });

In this example, we listen for "update-text" messages. When `index.html` sends a message with that type, we call the provided callback with the message as an argument. In the function, we'll capitalize the letters, store it in a global variable `document` (scoped to the module's namespace). We then return the result back to `index.html`. Note that when `freedom.emit` is called from the module, messages are directed to the outer encompassing page.

###Display the uppercased text in index.html
Now we can similarly setup a `freedom.on` callback in [`index.html`](https://github.com/UWNetworksLab/freedom/blob/master/demo/texteditor/01/index.html) to listen for "display-text" messages from `index.html` and update our UI accordingly.

    freedom.on('display-text', function(data) {
      document.getElementById('text-input').value = data;
    });

### Run it!
Run the demo from the base directory in [`freedom.js`](https://github.com/UWNetworksLab/freedom):

    LOCAL=yes make demo

Then navigate to **http://localhost:8000/demo/texteditor/01** on your browser. This will compile *freedom.js* and start a local web server using 'python -mSimpleHTTPServer'. If you want to do this yourself, remember to point your `index.html` script tags to the right place.

### Next Page 
[2. Module Dependencies] (/UWNetworksLab/freedom/wiki/2.-Module-Dependencies) - Adding a child module